How dare they turn our village into a mess!
Konohamaru!
Udon! Moegi!
Just in time.
We're gonna save this village from this disaster!
What? But we just managed to run away.
Brother Naruto is away.
So it's our duty to protect the village!
Yeah, but there's nothing we can do against such powerful monsters!
I'll just blast 'em with the new jutsu
that Brother Naruto taught me!
New jutsu?!
It's probably the usual Pervy Ninjutsu, right?
No, it's not!
Konohamaru!
There's a jutsu I want to teach you!
What's with you all of a sudden?
Well, I... Um... How can I put it?
It's time I pass things on to others, instead of being passed down to.
Huh? What's that supposed to mean?
Don't tell me he came up with some awesome Pervy Ninjutsu?!
A-Anyway! The jutsu I'm gonna teach you is on a whole new level!
Just hurry up and teach it to me!
I wonder what kind of amazing Pervy Ninjutsu it is.
Listen up. First step is "rotation"!
Whoa! We're going to add motion, eh?!
And next is "power"!
Attack with the risqué, eh?!
And then finally, there is... There's even more?!
Containment!
The most points go to the best expression, eh?!
What are you talking about?
At first, I also thought this was a Pervy Ninjutsu...
But it's different!
With this jutsu, I can go on high-ranking missions!
What kind of high-ranking missions?!
At a time like this, we have things that we must do.
She's right, Konohamaru.
It's our duty to guide and evacuate the civilians!
We're supposed to evacuate the children and those who cannot fight, huh?
Yes! I'm going to check out how things are in Block C.
Right! I'll check on Block E.
Then I'm going to Block B!
I'll make sure there's no one who didn't make it out!
Be careful now, Konohamaru!
Anyone?! Is anyone here?!
Anyone!
Help me!
Where? Where are you?!
Are you all right?!
Hang on!
How could they do this?!
If we can't merge, I have no choice
but to pull in Nature Energy while I'm moving!
And I said that's impossible!
I never imagined this would happen after coming this far.
I'm not giving up!
If that's what it takes, then I'll keep at it until it works!
But I'm saying it's impossible!
I-I'm sorry...
I know this is hard to accept, but it's physically impossible.
That code on your back was a message to me from the Pervy Sage.
Yes, I know that.
And thanks to you, Naruto-boy,
it's become a key to solving the mystery of Pain--
Not just that.
It's also a message for me not to give up until the very end.
But still...
I'm Pervy Sage's student.
And if that message was my master's Ninja Way...then I...
I have no business whining!
What did I really lose that day?
ano hi honto ni ushinatta monotte nan dattakke
For the life of me, I can't remember.
tou ni wasureteshimatta yo
We slowly lost sight of each other in the twilight...
yuugure de futari sukoshizutsu mienakunatteitte
And yet we're stuck here - unable to go home.
sore nanoni bokura kaerezu ni ita
Weak, frail souls lost in the world...
dokoka ni kowaresou na moroi kokoro
We act strong to hide their fragility.
tsuyogaru kotoba de ootte kakushiteru
Hide their fragility... ootte kakushiteru
So farewell, but even forced apart...
sayonara aenakunattatte Our stories go on.
bokura wa tsuzuki ga aru kara
Even in a world without you, I run.
kimi no inai sekai datte hashiru yo
To someday get past the pain.
itsuka no itami mo koete
koete Someday...
Surname is Sarutobi! Given Name, Konohamaru!
Thank you...
You'll be all right now.
That mark...
It's the gang that killed Uncle Asuma... The Akatsuki!
Is Naruto Uzumaki here in the village or not? Which is it?
Naruto?!
He's...a member of the village.
We would never sell out a comrade!
The Will of Fire, eh?
What?!
If you do not answer my question, it is over for you.
I will ask you one more time.
What is this?
Is Naruto Uzumaki here in the village or not? Which is it?
I know nothing!
So get lost!
We don't know a thing! Let us go!
I see... Then I shall pass judgment.
It seems you truly did not know.
Wh-What's going on?!
He didn't do a thing and yet the guy on the left stopped moving?!
What did he do?!
Was the chunin fellow killed without
being able to defend himself at all?
I-I'd better get away from here. It's too dangerous!
Oh no! Is he on to me?!
It seems you went ahead to do as you please!
I have no mercy for scum like you!
Ebisu Sensei!
Now is your chance to get away, Konohamaru!
Where do you think you're looking?!
It'll take more than that to kill me!
Ebisu Sensei...
I must buy some time to allow Konohamaru to escape!
Wh-What'll I do? What'll I do?!
How can I...?
Good... He got away.
I messed up...
But I've done what I needed to do.
Is Naruto Uzumaki here in the village, or not?
If you know, speak up.
N-Naruto?
Brother Naruto?!
It seems you do know Naruto Uzumaki.
Then tell me where he is.
I may...not look it...
but I do hold the elite rank of instructor.
Naruto is my student.
Long ago, I considered him a nuisance.
who stood in the way of Konohamaru's rise to Hokage.
That's what I believed...
However, Naruto didn't allow his cursed fate to discourage him.
With unending optimism and a never-say-die attitude
he faced one challenge after another and overcame them.
The important lessons which I could not teach,
despite being an instructor,
Naruto taught them to my students.
You...have rambled on too long.
This is your last chance.
Do you know where Naruto is, or don't you?
Answer me! Or else I'll kill you.
Naruto... You...
You will overcome the death of your master
and carry on his legacy.
The strong will you possess will teach Konohamaru...
no, everyone in the village, many things.
Naruto is a member of the Hidden Leaf!
I have no intention of telling you Akatsuki anything!
Ebisu Sensei!
I see... Then...
Brother Naruto...
When people look at me or call out to me,
they only see me as the grandson of the Hokage.
And I'm sick of it!
That's why I want the title of Hokage right now!
It's not easy, stupid!
You keep harping on about the Hokage.
If you want that title so badly...
you can have it over my dead body!
Then starting now...we're rivals!
One day, we'll fight over the name of Hokage.
So look forward to that day, Konohamaru!
I guess this is the end of the road.
I hope that Konohamaru was able to escape.
Die...
I'll take you on!
I was taught that...
there's no shortcut in the world of the ninja!
Konohamaru! Why didn't you run away?!
You have the potential to one day become a Hokage!
Do not waste your life in a place like this!
I made a promise long ago.
To fight Brother Naruto over the title of Hokage...
That's what we promised.
Brother Naruto is my rival!
So I'll never choose to run away!
Because Brother Naruto won't be waiting at the end of that short path!
So fast!
One thing's certain. If he catches me, I'm dead.
If I'm caught, he'll kill me with some special jutsu.
Konohamaru!
S-Sensei!
Is Naruto Uzumaki here in the village or not? Which is it?
I get it... So this is what you see if you get caught.
Now, answer me.
It seems you truly did not know.
I'm starting to figure out...his ability.
I don't have a clue!
Konohamaru?!
B-Brother Naruto...
Konohamaru! There's a jutsu I want to teach you!
It's an A-Rank level jutsu in terms of difficulty to master.
I see. Then I shall pass judgment...
A Shadow Clone?!
Super advanced ninjutsu that combines
chakra rotation, power, and containment...
- Rasengan! - Rasengan!
Wh-When did he learn...such a...?
I am a genin of the Sarutobi clan,
honored with the name of this village!
Surname is Sarutobi! Given name is Konohamaru!
Remember that!
Oww!
Not just yet!
Let's keep on going!
This training is not for everyone...
You could say it's only possible because it's you and Jiraiya-boy.
Or else I wouldn't have even brought you here.
Unless you already possess enormous chakra inside you,
Nature Energy would just take over you right away.
Plus, they must have the guts to never give up.
That's the kind of person who can become a Sage.
He's so stubborn...
Let's take a break, Naruto-boy.
Otherwise, I won't be able to keep up.
That's no good! We have to keep going to make up
for the time we spent on the training up until now!
Look, you've never had this kind of training before.
To run and gather Nature Energy,
for which the foundation is being still,
is like telling you to look to the left, when you are looking to the right.
What is it?
You all push death out of your thoughts.
In battle, both sides suffer death, injury, and pain.
Feel pain. Contemplate pain.
Accept pain. Know pain.
Next time on Naruto Shippuden: "Pain to the World"
Almighty Push!
INN OKOSHI MEN'S BATH WOMEN'S BATH
This time, for sure, I'll use my sex appeal to get Sasuke.
This should be okay!
What's okay?
If you insist, Sasuke... I'll wash your back.
No thanks.
Aww, c'mon, don't be so boring.
This is sheer heaven...
What the hell are you doing, Suigetsu?!
I'd ask the same of you!
Huh?! I just happen to...
I mean...well... None of your business!
Damn it... It was the perfect opportunity.
Oh well... At least I got this...
Sasuke, have you seen my toothbrush?
Tune in again!